In the last couple of videos you were able to place the car above the concrete in this demonstration.
I want you to focus on the car and the way I'm moving my device if I orient my device to the left and
start the car the car is wheels oriented to the left and move in that direction.
If I orient my device to the right and start the car the car as wheels orient to the right and move
in that direction as well orienting and moving the car's wheels is based on how you orient your Felon.
And this is accomplished with the help of an accelerometer chip that's inside of your film.
So inside of X code the Klare a function called set up accelerometer funk set up accelerometer
with no argument type and no return value.
And call this function inside of you did load.
So right here just right.
Self does set up take Celera.
Back to your function.
What does an accelerometer even do.
I'll explain this in a bit but just know that to know how our phone is oriented we need accelerometer
data to access the accelerometer data.
We need a motion manager.
So first import or motion and declare a constant motion manager let Moshin manager is equal to CM motion
manager inside of your set up accelerometer function right.
If Moshin manager is accelerometer available this is pretty self-explanatory.
If there is an accelerometer available on your device if your device even has an accelerometer then
proceed with this block of code.
Otherwise else prints expense block print accelerometer not available.
You can air handle this any way you want.
I'm just going to leave a print statement.
Now assuming that we do have an accelerometer I'm pretty positive that my device does.
What does an accelerometer even do.
So in this Fillon there is an accelerometer chip the accelerometer chip measures acceleration that's
caused by motion.
Right now the phone and myself are standing still.
There is no acceleration that's being caused by motion since the phone is not moving.
However there is one acceleration that's being applied to the film and the acceleration that the accelerometer
is detecting right now is the acceleration due to gravity.
Here's how it works.
Right now the phone is straight up and the force of gravity goes straight down.
So 100 percent of the force of gravity is being applied in the y direction of the foam.
The vertical direction.
So the accelerometer will conclude that gravity is pulling down on the film such that the phone has
an acceleration due to gravity.
That's completely in the y direction in the vertical direction.
If I rotate my phone 45 degrees such that it's not up but it's halfway up.
And it's also halfway down.
Gravity comes down on the phone at an angle.
So the accelerometer inside of the film will conclude that gravity is pulling down the phone such that
the phone has an acceleration due to gravity.
That's 45 degrees in the wind direction and 45 degrees in the x direction.
If I rotate my phone a full 90 degrees such that the film is now completely horizontal 100 percent of
the gravitational force is being applied in the x direction of the phone.
The horizontal direction.
So just think of this part as the vertical direction and this is the horizontal direction of the phone.
The horizontal part of the phone is where gravity is being applied.
So the accelerometer will conclude that gravity is pulling down on the phone such that the phone has
an acceleration due to gravity that's completely horizontal in the x direction and there is nothing
going on in the y direction.
So how do we observe this that 2 x code.
First we want the accelerometer inside the phone to start detecting acceleration that's applied on the
phone.
In our case acceleration due to gravity to do the right motion manager does start accelerometer updates
to is going to be the main thread.
Everything is going to happen on the main.
Q With händler call the first argument accelerometer data and the second argument is the error that
occurs if there is an error.
So if there is an error if error is equal to error then print error or adult localized description
you can handle this any way you want.
Again I'm just going to leave a print statement and return.
So if there is no error and the accelerometer starts detecting the acceleration on the phone it's going
to update us on what the acceleration is in the form of accelerometer data.
So by reading motion manager got an accelerometer a day interval
is equal to one over 60 this function will get triggered 60 times a second to prove that right here
print accelerometer
is detecting acceleration run the up
this print statement keeps getting triggered and it's happening 60 times a second.
The accelerometer is detecting and updating us on the acceleration 60 times a second.
So back to X code whenever this block of code gets triggered.
So whenever the accelerometer updates us on the phone's acceleration we need to use this data.
So we declare a function called phunk accelerometer the change with argument.
Acceleration of type C and acceleration.
It's not going to have a return value.
And call this function inside of your block by writing self accelerometer in past your accelerometer
data by writing accelerometer data acceleration and inside of your accelerometer change function.
Print the acceleration acts as well as the acceleration dot Y and leave an empty print statement right
after.
So acceleration X is going to equal how much gravity is being applied in the horizontal face of the
film the horizontal direction of the film if acceleration x is equal to 1.
That means all the gravity is being applied in the x direction.
So the phone is completely horizontal if it equals zero.
That means no gravitational force is being applied in the x direction the horizontal direction acceleration
not y is going to equal how much gravity is being applied in the vertical direction.
Once again if the acceleration y equals one that means all the gravity is being applied in the vertical
direction the y direction if it equals zero that means there is no gravitational force being applied
in the vertical direction.
So run the app to see this in action.
And I'm getting an error which is telling me that this is an optional type.
So just unwrap it and rerun the OP right now.
My phone is completely vertical so the gravitational force is being completely applied to the vertical
face of the phone.
The why and notice in the debugger how the Y acceleration is very close to negative 1.
It's basically negative 1 However there is no gravitational force that's being applied in the horizontal
direction.
And notice how the x acceleration is very close to zero.
It's basically zero.
So all the gravity is being applied to the vertical part of the phone.
And there is no gravity being applied on the horizontal.
Now you might be asking yourself why is this negative one and not one.
I did say before that if the acceleration up y is equal to one that means that all the gravity is being
applied in the y direction will all the gravity is still being applied in the wind direction.
The negative you see right now simply means a change in direction.
The accelerometer changes the direction of how the phone is experiencing gravity based on how the phone
is oriented.
If I rotate my phone just died it's upside down.
The phone is still completely vertical and we're still experiencing a full gravitational force in the
vertical.
It doesn't matter if the number one or the number close to 1 is negative or positive.
Notice in the debugger the horizontal acceleration is very close to zero.
Since the phone is completely vertical if I rotate my phone such that it's completely horizontal.
The gravitational force is being applied completely to the horizontal part of the phone and nothing
on the vertical part.
So I notice in the debugger the x acceleration this time is very close to one.
So all of the gravitational acceleration is being applied to the x direction of the phone.
The fire rotate my phone 45 degrees.
So about half way
half of the gravitational force is being applied in the x direction and the other half is being applied
to the vertical part of the phone.
Notice both the x and y accelerations have very similar values almost equal.
If I rotate my phone closer to the vertical
more gravitational force is being applied to the vertical part of the phone and less is being applied
in the horizontal.
Notice in the debugger the vertical acceleration is very close to negative 1 whereas the horizontal
one is 0.3 more close to zero.
If I rotate my phone closer to the horizontal but not completely horizontal there is more gravitational
force being applied in the horizontal part of the phone than there is in the vertical.
Notice in the debugger how the horizontal acceleration is point 8 which is very close to 1.
And how the vertical one is very close to zero.
So the trend is very simple.
The closer your phone is to being vertical The higher your vertical acceleration the closer it is to
being horizontal The higher your horizontal acceleration.
I hope you've memorized the pattern by now.
So now we're able to detect how the phone is oriented based on the force of gravity that's being applied
on the phone.
Now remember this demonstration.
I explain that if I orient my film to the right the phone moves to the right.
So on and so forth.
So now that we know how the form is oriented at all times we can now move the car according to how we're
orienting the phone.
We'll do that in the next video.